
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Flight TM470 took off from Maputo at 09:26 GMT and had been
due to land in the Angolan capital Luanda at 13:10 GMT, but never arrived, the
airline said in a statement. "Initial information suggests it might have landed in
Rundu, in northern Namibia near the border with Botswana and Angola." "LAM airlines, aeronautical and airport authorities are
trying to establish contact to confirm the information," it added. Company spokesperson Norberto Mucopa could not confirm the
nationalities of the people on board the Brazilian-made Embraer 190 or if they
included government officials. "The last contact was in the north of Namibia," he
told AFP. LAM CEO Marlene Manave told journalists the last contact
with the aircraft had been at 11:30 GMT. Search Heavy rain in the area where it disappeared complicated the
search, she said, according to Canalmoz newspaper. A police commander confirmed the incident to AFP in Namibia. "We are busy searching. It's dark now and it makes our
job a bit difficult," said Olavi Auanga, police commander of the Kavango
West region, where the control tower lost signal with the aircraft. An aviation officer in the area told AFP on condition of
anonymity that unconfirmed reports suggested the airplane may have gone down in
the Bwabwata National Park around 200km east of Rundu. The 6 100-square-kilometre reserve covers the narrow strip
of land formerly known as the Caprivi strip, a sparsely-populated area with
wetlands and dense forests. The European Union banned LAM from flying in its airspace in
2011. "Significant safety deficiencies" led to the blacklisting
of all air carriers certified in Mozambique, the EU said at the time. The concern was about Mozambique's civil aviation authority,
rather than the track record of the various airlines. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  