New York - The UN's deputy emergency relief co-ordinator
said on Tuesday a hospital in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo that helps
victims of sexual violence is now treating 300 rape survivors a month - and
that's just "the tip of the iceberg". Assistant Secretary-General Kyung-Wha Kang visited eastern DRC
last week. She said the founder of Panzi Hospital in the South Kivu capital of
Bukavu told her that the number of women and girls coming for treatment as a
result of rapes has increased since 2012. Kang said rapes in South Kivu are committed by different
armed groups including the Raia Mutomboki, a village self-protection vigilante
group that has become a "very brutal" rebel force and controls large
areas. The Congolese army and the rebel M23 group also have been accused of
rapes. The Panzi Hospital, run by Dr Denis Mukwege, is "like a
haven for rape survivors, and we can only imagine the number of rape victims
who don't make it to such facilities", Kang said. "So the 300
registered by the hospital [every month] is just the tip of the iceberg." Kang said increased fighting by M23 rebels in North Kivu
last year and by the Raia Mutomboki in South Kivu more recently has led to an
increase in the number of displaced people in eastern DRC, from 1.8 million
at the beginning of 2012 to 2.6 million this year. As a result, the humanitarian situation has deteriorated,
including food insecurity and malnutrition. The UN has appealed for $892m for DRC this year, but Kang
said so far donors have pledged only $333m, about 37%. Kang urged donors to
fund the remaining $559m. As a result of the lack of funds, the daily food ration to
the displaced near Walungu in South Kivu has been cut in half, Kang said. She
said thousands of people have arrived in the village of Mulamba in Walungu,
which she visited, since early 2013 due to attacks by the Raia Mutomboki. Kang said everyone she met is placing great hope that the
peace deal signed by DRC and 10 other countries in February will bring calm
after decades of conflict. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  