
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Accra - Porous borders, corruption and the chance of riches
have helped draw illegal gold miners to Ghana from as far away as China,
prompting a crackdown that has so far netted over 150 Chinese, experts say. The continent's second-largest producer of gold and a beacon
of stability in turbulent west Africa, Ghana has been struggling with the
impact of small-scale mining, which is illegal for foreigners and damages the
environment. Sydney Casely-Hayford, a prominent financial analyst, said
that Ghanaian traditional leaders and businessmen encourage the mining, and the
crackdown won't stop it for good. "It's quick and easy money," Casely-Hayford said.
"There is nothing you can do because the traditional authorities want the
money, the operators want the money, the Chinese want the money - they want the
gold." A task force of police, immigration and national security
agents last month began a campaign to flush out the illegal miners, which
authorities blame for harming water supplies and the environment. President John Dramani Mahama, who is under increasing
pressure to halt the practice, ordered the task force last month. Last week, it arrested 168 foreigners, mostly Chinese as
well as six Russians, said Francis Palmdeti, a spokesperson for Ghana's
immigration service. China was also helping, he said, by aiding repatriations of
Chinese involved in illegal mining. Chinese data  Chinese began making their way to Ghana in recent years,
aided by significant trade between the two countries as well as Beijing's
increased investment in Africa as it seeks markets and access to oil as well as
other natural resources. Ghana has a nascent oil industry and China has expressed
interest in investing. In 2011, Ghana announced plans to borrow $800m from
China to build natural gas infrastructure. That same year, Ghana's government cited Chinese data saying
more than 500 Chinese businesses were operating in Ghana, including those
involved in electricity projects, water supply and road construction. Involvement in illicit gold mining developed quickly from
there. "It only just needs or one two people to start it off
and it takes off. This is purely a word of mouth," Casely-Hayford said. Yu Jie, a senior official for the Chinese embassy in Accra,
said the embassy doesn't know how many Chinese are involved in the industry
because it has no system for keeping track of its citizens in the country. 

 "You know that every Chinese has the freedom to get a
passport to go abroad," he said. But Chinese citizens were leaving the gold mining areas, he
said. Other nations on the African continent are also involved.
Over the weekend, authorities arrested 57 people from west African countries
for engaging in "galamsey", the local term for illegal gold mining. Sanity  Those arrested included 51 Niger nationals, two Togolese,
one Nigerian and three Ghanaians. While many Chinese illegal miners entered Ghana on visitors
permits, a regional treaty allows for citizens of west African countries to
travel freely in the region, and so many come into Ghana under the radar,
Palmdeti said. Palmdeti said the arrests will continue until authorities
are satisfied the illegal mining is halted, and will likely expand into the
country's northern region. "We'll keep at it until such time that we think some
sanity has been restored in that sector of the economy," Palmdeti said. But Vladimir Antwi-Danso, director of the Legon Centre for
International Affairs and Diplomacy, said the real issue, was the corruption
among local officials that allowed the illegal mining to proliferate in the
country's interior. "This is to satisfy the political heat" hitting
the sector right now, Antwi-Danso said. "We have rules and regulations in
this country. Why do you need a task force?" 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  