
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Lagos - Forced evictions in Nigeria's largest city Lagos
have cost at least 9 000 people their homes or livelihoods, Amnesty
International and a local rights group said in a report Monday. Tens of thousands more could be at risk if the government
proceeds with plans to redevelop the slum area of Badia East, said the report,
issued jointly with the Social and Economic Rights Action Centre (SERAC). Residents said armed police and bulldozers moved in without
warning in February, forcing them out, in what the government has termed the
first phase of its clearance plan. "The effects of February's forced eviction have been
devastating for the Badia East community where dozens are still sleeping out in
the open or under a nearby bridge exposed to rain, mosquitos and at risk of
physical attack," said Oluwatosin Popoola, Amnesty International's Nigeria
researcher. The report calls on Lagos authorities to halt the forced
evictions, aimed at bringing order to the chaotic and crowded metropolis which
is home to 15 million people. "It is estimated that close to 9 000 residents of Badia
East lost their homes or livelihoods," said a statement on the report. "If these plans proceed as described, tens of thousands
will be at risk of forced eviction and face possible destitution." Slums have sprung up throughout Lagos as residents pour into
the sprawling city in search of work from across Africa's most populous nation. The two groups used before-and-after satellite images
showing concrete houses and other structures razed to the ground to dispute
claims by an official that the area cleared was a rubbish dump. A survey carried out by residents estimated that at least
266 buildings containing homes and businesses were completely destroyed,
affecting an estimated 2 237 households. Similar evictions have been carried in other places across
Nigeria, with thousands of residents left homeless. Lagos officials did not immediately return calls for
comment. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  