SANDF peacekeeper 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     "We are adequately equipped and we are ready,"
SA National Defence Force (SANDF) joint operations chief Lieutenant General
Derrick Mgwebi told reporters at the Thaba Tshwane Military base in Pretoria. He said the UN had requested South African authorities to
send additional weaponry to the turbulent central African country. "The artillery battery is coming from Tanzania and
it’s already on the ground. [Regarding the helicopters] we were approached,
they [UN] looked at what we have, the capabilities [of the Rooivalk attack
helicopters] and they were happy," he said. "You then have to tell the UN how much it is going
to cost them because you don’t want to fly it [the helicopters] on the
taxpayer’s account. We are not sending any pieces of artillery but we will send
the Rooivalk if the UN agrees." Mgwebi said the world body had yet to pay for the further
deployments it requested. "They have requested a battalion from us and we have
given them [the soldiers]. We [also] have three Oryx helicopters already on the
ground," he said. "When you give them, it speaks to the issues of
reimbursement. We said 'we give you and you reimburse the country'." He said the UN was required to sign documentation before
additional weaponry was sent to the DRC. "We have said to them we are ready and this is what
it is going to mean to you [financially] as the UN, the rates. The ball is in
their court, not in South Africa's," said Mgwebi. He said the UN had not requested South Africa to send
Gripen fighter jets to the DRC. "My understanding of the UN as an organisation and
looking at the threat on the ground, does the M23 and all those negative forces
warrant a Gripen? The answer is no," said Mgwebi "We have never been approached to provide anything
which looks like a Gripen. We are not considering [sending] the Gripen." Mgwebi said it was not clear when South African soldiers
would be returning home. SANDF in DRC Last week, President Jacob Zuma informed Parliament that
1 345 soldiers had been deployed to the DRC as part of the UN Force
Intervention Brigade (FIB) in the eastern DRC. The deployment of the FIB followed the passing of a UN
resolution in March authorising a force to intervene in cases where negative
forces threatened people's lives and property in the east of the DRC. Zuma said on Thursday that no South African soldiers had
been critically wounded in clashes with rebels in the DRC. "Three of our soldiers have been injured in the
conflict since the weekend, largely from shrapnel wounds. None have been
seriously wounded," Zuma told reporters at the Union Buildings in
Pretoria. "Our soldiers are well-trained and are ready for
their responsibilities towards building a better and more peaceful Africa.
South Africa has deployed troops in fulfilment of our international obligations
towards the United Nations," he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  