(Picture: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Algeria's vast, sparsely populated Sahara only holds 10%
of the country's population but it is home to this North African country's
enormous oil and gas reserves - the basis of the entire economy and the source
of the government's power. Those who live there claim they aren't benefiting
from that wealth, and can't get jobs with the oil companies. Now al-Qaeda has praised the protesters, raising the
possibility that it is seeking support among the disaffected groups. The
government is rushing to address the protesters' demands, but hasn't yet
convinced them that it's serious. Some 10 000 people - an enormous number for the lightly
populated region - demonstrated on 14 March in Algeria's southern oil city of
Ouargla, and thousands more later protested in another southern oil town,
Laghouat. "We want access to jobs in the oil companies, and
not just the low-value ones like drivers and security guards; we want to be in
the administration," Tahar Belabes, the head of the National Committee for
Defence of the Rights of the Unemployed, which organised the demonstration,
said by telephone from Ouargla. "We just want the same employment possibilities.
It's not normal that we live in the region where the oil and gas is located but
don't benefit from it." While youth unemployment is widespread in Algeria, and
the rest of North Africa, the southerners say they are particularly
discriminated against. There is also a widespread distrust of government
officials, who are believed corrupt and skimming off the country's vast oil
receipts. Prime Minister Abdelmalek Sellal acknowledged on 16 March,
that the demonstrators' demands are legitimate and the government hurriedly
announced a string of measures to address the perceived geographical bias in
oil jobs. Oil companies will
be obliged to give priority to job candidates from the south and recruitment
must occur through registered employment agencies. The government announced
that job-training centres would be set up to ready candidates for jobs with oil
companies and hotels. Demonstrations continued The demonstrations, however, have not stopped, and on
Monday hundreds protested in the desert towns of Ghardaia and Oued Souf. "The demonstrations are continuing because the young
unemployed don't believe in official promises and they don't trust the local
government representatives or their parliamentarians - they want to negotiate
directly with the government," said Kamal Zaidi, a member of an unemployed
group in Laghouat and a human rights activist. Most worrying for the government is that, on Friday,
al-Qaeda's North African branch expressed solidarity with the demonstrations,
slamming what they say is the corrupt use of the country's resources. "The events of the south and the call of the people
to protest in the streets is the natural response to the policy of marginalisation
and nepotism used by the corrupt Algerian regime," said the message posted
on extremist websites. Al-Qaeda's signature tactic around the world has been to
find marginalised groups in remote areas and espouse their cause, much the way
they did with the disenfranchised Tuareg tribesmen in northern Mali, setting up
a foothold that later became a de facto state before they were routed by the
French in February. In January, an al-Qaeda-linked group for the first time
attacked one of the country's remote desert gas plants. While the leaders of al-Qaeda's Algerian branch are
predominantly from the populous north, the leader of the attack on the Ain
Amenas gas complex in January that left 37 hostages dead was a southerner -
Lamine Bencheneb, part of the radical Sons of Sahara armed Islamic group. Attack on militants In the attack, the multinational team of militants
appeared to know the complex inside and out, sparking reports that they may
have had allies among the site's local drivers who had gone on strike over low
pay just weeks earlier. Geoff Porter, a veteran Algeria analyst with the North
Africa Risk Consulting firm said the "unevenness" of past government
investment programs have left a legacy of distrust in the south - a region that
also lacks the educational opportunities to produce the necessary skills for
oil sector jobs. Part of the problem, he added, is that the hydrocarbon
industries don't require very much employment and there is little else going in
these remote communities after the desert tourism industry dried up. In attempt to curb the recent demonstrations, the
government sent local parliamentarians, mostly from the ruling party, back to
their towns in the south to hold meetings, but most of these were boycotted by
the committees of the unemployed. "The Algerian state has always had a policy of
national investment and a great deal of money has been invested in the south,
just like the other regions," said Mohammed Dhimi, one of the members of
parliament from the south. "Perhaps the investments were not well
thought-out or misdirected or didn't respond to the agricultural and industrial
needs of the people." "The protesters may sense that they have built up
some momentum and that they are going to continue their protests until they see
meaningful steps taken to deliver on the prime minister's promises," he
said. Belabes, the head of the unemployment committee, promised
a new round of demonstrations in the coming days. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  