JOSEPH Shabalala, the founder member of Ladysmith Black Mambazo, and veteran photographer Ranjith Kally will be honoured at the eThekwini Municipality’s Living Legends Awards at the Durban ICC tomorrow. Now in their sixth year, the awards aim to celebrate members of the broader eThekwini community who have given years of tireless dedication and service to community and society — while they are still living. The event forms part of the parks, recreation & culture service unit’s Heritage month celebrations and is an integral item on the annual Celebrate Durban calendar. In the humanitarian and community service category is Samuel Draai, who served in the South African Navy during World War 2 and has been actively involved in the Durban community for nearly 65 years. He also founded the Durban Boys Brigade 78 years ago. The 91-year-old, who recited his ID and cell numbers for The Witness reporter just to prove how young at heart he is, said the award came as a surprise. He said serving the community is in his nature. The 18-time Comrades Marathon runner said he was still much involved in the brigade and community centre. eThekwini speaker Logie Naidoo said this year’s event will provide an opportunity to reflect on a rich legacy of leadership by individuals from all sectors of society, who continue to make an inspirational difference in society. “It has been six years since the Living Legends programme was initiated by our city, and during that time we have conferred our deepest thanks and appreciation on over 100 South Africans, all of whom have a “proudly Durban” connection. “We also want to take this opportunity to remember one of our former Living Legends, Justice Pius Langa, who died on July 24 this year.” Recipients have been nominated from the fields of arts and culture, human rights, academia, science and technology, music and entertainment, sport, business, the environment and religion. This year, the council is also handing out two appreciation awards to Inanda Seminary, which remained a beacon of hope to all who passed through the school’s doors during the darkest days of apartheid, and Ladysmith Black Mambazo, who have made their musical mark on the world map. The full list is: Entertainment, Arts and Culture: • Joseph Shabalala, founder member of Ladysmith Black Mambazo; • Ranjith Kally, veteran apartheid photographer. Human rights: • Mary Mkhwanazi (founder of the South African Domestic Workers’ Union); • The Reverend Sue Brittion, eco warrior and conflict resolution facilitator; • Jackie Branfield from Operation Bobbi Bear, a children and women’s rights advocate. Academic: • Professor Malegapuru Makgoba, internationally recognised academic. Community: • Samuel Draai, humanitarian and community servant; • Desmond Makhanya, graduate of Adams College and historian; • Tich Smith from LIV Children’s Village in Verulam. Business: • Sizwe Nxasana, CEO of First Rand Bank and a leader in the world of business and finance. Sport: • Sue Pather, women’s cricket umpire and founder member of the National Council of Women in SA. Environment: • Mkhuluwe Cele for exceptional work done in the field of indigenous plants and traditional healing/medicine.