Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir. (File, AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Khartoum - Two people have been killed in the Khartoum area
in riots sparked by the lifting of government fuel subsidies, police and the
family of one of the victims said on Wednesday. The deaths since Tuesday take to three the number of people
who have died since demonstrations erupted in central Sudan on Monday before
spreading to the capital. Protests that began late on Tuesday in Khartoum lasted until
dawn on Wednesday, an AFP correspondent said. On Monday, the government announced steep price rises for
petroleum products after suspending subsidies in a bid to reform the economy. Witnesses told AFP that on Tuesday, protesters ransacked and
then torched offices of the ruling National Congress Party in Khartoum's twin
city of Omdurman. "The people want the fall of the regime!" chanted
hundreds of demonstrators, echoing the Arab Spring mantra first heard in
Tunisia in late 2010. One student was killed in the Omdurman protests, named to
AFP by his family as Omar Mohammed Ahmed al-Khidr. Police said that another man was killed in Khartoum, without
naming him, and that other civilians and police were injured. "Most areas in Khartoum saw unrest and unauthorised
gatherings aimed at damaging property and allowing looting, necessitating
police intervention," a statement said. It said one man was killed in the capital "while trying
to steal the property of a citizen who fought back". Inflation  The protests first erupted in Wad Madani in Al-Jazeera state
southeast of Khartoum on Monday, where one man died. They later spread to the streets of Khartoum, Omdurman and
Nyala, capital of South Darfur state. Oil prices at the pump have shot up to 20.80 Sudanese pounds
($4.71) a gallon from 12.50 pounds ($2.83), while diesel has risen from 8.50
pounds a gallon to 13.90 pounds. Inflation in Sudan is already running at 40%. President Omar al-Bashir said on Sunday the subsidies had
reached "a level that is dangerous for the economy". Sudan lost billions of dollars in oil receipts when South
Sudan gained independence two years ago, taking with it about 75% of the
formerly united country's crude production. Since then Sudan has been plagued by inflation, a weakened
currency and a severe shortage of dollars to pay for imports. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  