Road sign near the In Amenas gas field. (Picture: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Ottawa - A Canadian close to two countrymen implicated in an
attack on a gas plant in Algeria that left dozens dead was detained in North
Africa before the assault, public broadcaster CBC reported on Wednesday. But the man's brother denied that he had been arrested,
telling Global News he was in the region and had talked to him by phone on
Sunday. At least 38 hostages - 37 foreigners and one Algerian - and
29 militants were killed during a days-long siege and rescue operation by the
Algerian army following the January 16 attack by jihadists on the In Amenas
plant. Citing "international intelligence sources", the
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation said Aaron Yoon, aged about 24, left Canada
last year with two former high school friends from London, Ontario - Xris
Katsiroubas, who hails from a Greek Orthodox family but converted to Islam, and
Ali Medlej. Katsiroubas and Medlej died during the siege, possibly by
blowing themselves up. Yoon, who grew up Catholic but converted to Islam, was
jailed before the attack, CBC reported, without mentioning where. The group consisted of four individuals, CBC said, but the
fate of the fourth is unclear. But Yoon's brother, who reportedly spoke with two Global
News journalists on condition of anonymity, denied the story, saying he had
spoken with Yoon on Sunday. Terrorist attacks "He's not in trouble," Yoon's brother told the
broadcaster. "I believe him. I have no evidence otherwise." The brother said he spoke with Yoon by phone on Sunday after
being told by Canadian police that Katsiroubas and Medlej were dead. "He was totally shocked. He didn't know that happened.
He seemed genuine," he said. According to the brother, Yoon is travelling in North Africa
to learn Arabic and study the Koran, not engage in terrorist attacks - though
he did meet up with his two old friends in the region prior to their deaths. Commenting on Yoon's conversion to Islam, his brother said:
"It was a positive thing. I obviously had questions, a few conversations
about it... He was just a better person, much more respectful." "It's because they were friends in London and met
overseas, and he was [one of] the last people that Xris and Ali spoke
with," the brother said. "He wasn't in the attack." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  