
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Paris – At least 74 000 Malians, who have been displaced by
war and ethnic tensions, are in need of urgent help in the desert of
Mauritania, the Doctors without Borders (MSF) aid group said on Friday. In the Mbera camp "humanitarian assistance is
insufficient", said the group in a report. Since January last year, when Tuareg rebels declared the
independence of Mali's entire desert north before losing control to armed
Islamists, more than 270 000 people have been displaced while 170 000 others
fled to neighbouring countries, mainly Burkina Faso, Mauritania and Niger,
according to the United Nations. French forces intervened in Mali in mid-January this year to
assist the Malian authorities in retaking the lost territory, and pursue their
operations in the north. MSF said that the displaced at the Mbera camp were also
suffering from food insecurity and a lack of basic services, but there was no
famine as "rations have improved, food is sufficient now", said MSF
emergency official Marie-Christine Ferir. But water is scarce while temperatures
soar to 50°C . 



 Refugees receive 11 litres of water a day on average but
could use 20 for cooking, drinking and personal hygiene. Children "should get a ration rich in milk and
micronutrients so as to avoid malnutrition", Ferir added. The death rate among children has soared, according to
Ferir. "It is currently above the emergency level of two
deaths per 10 000 people a day. We have reached 3.2 deaths per 10 000 people a
day." Which means that on average 23 to 24 children die every day
at Mbera where most refugees are Tuareg, with a large group of Arabs. "They will not move away any time soon" for fear
of reprisals," said Ferir. "That's what they tell us
themselves." After an earlier rebellion in the 1990s, "some stayed
for several year". Many Malian villages close to the Mauritanian border have
been totally or partially abandoned by their residents after the outbreak of
unrest last year. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  