A hot air balloon flying over Egypt's ancient city of Luxor caught fire and crashed into a sugar cane field on Tuesday. See all the pictures. The balloon, carrying 20 tourists from Hong Kong, Japan,
France, Britain and Hungary, along with the pilot, was flying at 300m when it
caught fire, exploded and plunged to earth, a security official said. The pilot and one tourist survived by jumping out of the
basket at some point before it hit the ground, said an employee of Sky Cruise,
which operates the balloon rides. Both were taken to hospital. A video shot by a passenger on another flight appears to
show smoke pouring from the balloon's basket for some time before the balloon
itself collapses, leaving the basket full of tourists to freefall to earth. "This is terrible, just terrible," the employee
told AFP by telephone, declining to give her name. "We don't yet know what
happened exactly or what went wrong." Luxor Governor Ezzat Saad imposed an immediate ban on all
hot-air balloon flights in the province as Prime Minister Hisham kandil ordered
the investigation. Security services cordoned off the crash site in Luxor's
dense sugar cane fields, as police and residents inspected the charred remains
of the balloon. "There was a terrifying sound when the balloon
exploded," one resident, Ahmed, 40, told AFP. "Bodies engulfed in flames were falling out of the
balloon," said Youssef al-Tayyeb, another resident who witnessed the
accident. Conflicting figures and details  The balloon had been floating over the west bank of Luxor,
one of Egypt's most renowned archaeological sites and home to the famous Valley
of the Kings and the grand Temple of Hatshepsut, when it exploded. There was confusion over the exact death toll and the tourists'
nationalities. Different official bodies gave conflicting figures and details. An Egyptian security official said 19 tourists from Hong
Kong, Japan, Britain, France and Hungary had died. The health ministry put the
toll at 18 dead. The French foreign ministry confirmed two of its citizens
were among the dead. Britain's Foreign Office said two British nationals and one
British resident had died. Later, it named them as Yvonne Rennie, Joe Bampton
and Hungarian-born Suzanna Gyetvai and said another Briton was "in a
stable condition" after surviving the plunge. Nine of those killed were thought to be from Hong Kong, and
four from Japan. "We believe that there is a high possibility that nine
of our customers have died," said Raymond Ng, general manager of travel
agency Kuoni, which organised the Hong Kongers' tour. The five women and four men were aged between 33 and 62, Ng
said, adding their relatives were flying to Cairo accompanied by three Kuoni
staff. The nine were among a group of 15 Hong Kongers who had left
for Egypt on February 22. Ng said that according to local employees the balloon
caught fire about an hour after it had set off, plummeting to the ground two
minutes later. In Japan, tour company JTB said four Japanese tourists
involved in the accident were all confirmed dead. The foreign ministry said it
was seeking further information. Devastating effect on tourism  French hot-air balloon expert Philippe Buron-Pilatre de
Rozier said the blast could have been caused by a leak after a spark caused by
a lighter or a cigarette. Another reason could be wear and tear due to poor
maintenance, said Buron-Pilatre de Rozier. Hot-air balloons such as the ones
used in Egypt are generally 40m high and can carry up to 25 passengers, he
added. In 2009, 13 foreign tourists were injured when their balloon
hit a phone mast and crashed at Luxor. Sources at the time said the balloon was
overcrowded. Local operators were bracing themselves for a backlash
following the crash. "The accident will have a devastating effect on
tourism," said Yasser al-Zambali, who owns the Dream Balloon company in
Luxor, one of a handful of firms to organise sunrise flights over the city. "How can I now convince other tourists to pay a single
dollar to ride a balloon now?" Tuesday's crash comes amid widespread anger over safety
standards in Egypt following several deadly transport and construction
accidents. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  