(Picture: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) spokesperson Gibril
Adam Bilal said Chad had bombed the frontier in North Darfur state's Tina
district on Monday. "So far no, there are not any casualties from our
side," he said. A regional expert, who asked to remain anonymous, also
said a Chadian fighter jet bombed the Chad-Sudanese border area on Monday afternoon,
targeting the JEM. He said he had no information on whether the rebels
suffered casualties in the strike, and added he thought the Chadian air force
had "bombed both sides" of the border. Bilal claimed Sudanese and Chadian aircraft had carried out
more raids since Monday, but the political expert was unable to confirm this. A Sudanese defence ministry spokesperson had no
information about the air strike, but said that Sudan and Chad maintain a joint
border force. The African Union-UN peacekeeping mission in Darfur (Unamid)
also had no information about a bombardment in the Tina area. ‘Heinous act’ JEM forces on Sunday "liquidated" Mohammed
Bashar and another leader of a breakaway JEM faction, on the border with Chad,
Khartoum's foreign ministry said earlier. Chad condemned the "heinous act" which, it
said, occurred on its territory near the Chad-Sudan frontier and would
undermine the Darfur peace process. Bashar's faction in April became the second rebel
splinter group to join a 2011 peace deal with the Khartoum government. The main JEM and other key Darfur rebel organisations,
which have been fighting for 10 years in Sudan's far west, have rejected the
peace agreement. In February, when Bashar's faction signed an initial
ceasefire with the government, Bilal said it would make no difference on the
ground because the signatories had been under the protection of the joint
Sudan-Chad border monitoring force. The regional political expert said Chad had supported
Bashar's breakaway faction and worked with Sudan to weaken the main JEM group. Although President Idriss Deby Itno's regime and Sudan
previously traded accusations of supporting rebel forces working against each
other's regimes, relations have improved since 2010. Sudan's President Omar al-Bashir last week visited
N'Djamena for a regional summit, despite International Criminal Court arrest
warrants. He is wanted for alleged war crimes, crimes against humanity and
genocide in Darfur. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  