A picture shows the interior of the "5 Fishes" yacht which used to belong to Belhassen Trabelsi, the brother-in-law of ousted dictator Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. (Fethi Belaid, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories La Goulette - Tunisia put on display on Friday a luxury yacht formerly owned by the brother-in-law of deposed dictator Zine El Abidine Ben Ali that Spain returned to Tunisia last month, an AFP photographer reported. Meanwhile, central bank governor Chedly Ayari, speaking at the event, said Switzerland would soon hand back to Tunisia €50m linked to Ben Ali that were frozen during the uprising that ousted him. The 32m "Five Fishes" yacht, worth an estimated €8m, was returned to Tunisia on 28 April, said a naval official in charge of the vessel, currently anchored in the Tunis suburb La Goulette. The boat, which belonged to Belhassen Trabelsi, has been put up for sale. So far, only one offer, for €7m, has been made, which the authorities have rejected. The millionaire businessman and brother of Ben Ali's wife Leila Trabelsi fled Tunisia on a separate ship in the hours before the former regime fell, on 14 January 2011, and is in Canada seeking political asylum. In April, Italy returned a luxury yacht that belonged to Ben Ali nephew Kais Ben Ali, arrested last year on corruption charges. It had sailed to the island of Lampedusa in the chaotic days after the revolution. A bill is currently under study that would help cash-strapped Tunisia get its hands on assets belonging to the Ben Ali clan that were transferred abroad. "Our next destinations are Lebanon and Switzerland. There are 60 million Swiss francs frozen in Switzerland that will soon be returned," the central bank governor said. He did not elaborate on the funds that Tunisia was seeking in Lebanon, which earlier this year returned $28.8m stashed there by the Ben Ali family. President Moncef Marzouki has said Ben Ali and those close to him embezzled $15-20bn during his 23-year rule. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  