Mike MwaleMORE than two decades after his last sermon at Harry Gwala Stadium, the stage is set for a big return for charismatic farmer Angus Buchan.A crowd of 20&thinsp;000 is expected to show up at the venue on Sunday. The talk, at 2&thinsp;pm, is being hosted by the NCF Church.Buchan (65), of Scottish parentage, was born in Bulawayo in Zimbabwe and grew up in Zambia. He left his farm there to come to South Africa in August 1977. The author of several books, including the popular Faith like Potatoes that was made into a film, Buchan last spoke at Harry Gwala Stadium in 1992 and said he was excited to come back and speak to people from all backgrounds. &ldquo;The theme of the talk on Sunday focuses on truth. People are sick and tired of listening to lies from politicians and the false promises that circulate in our society. If ever there is a time when the world needs to hear truth, it is now,&rdquo; Buchan said from his Shalom farm in Greytown. Buchan showed off his cowboy hat that he was presented with as a souvenir by Charlie Daniels, the American country singer. He has just returned from the first Mighty Men Conference in the U.S. where about 11&thinsp;000 men turned up in Nashville, Tennessee. The Mighty Men Conferences, which Buchan started in 2004, have drawn thousands of men from across the country and abroad. Asked how he managed to draw large crowds at his conferences, Buchan smiled: &ldquo;I have practical qualifications, not academic qualifications. I am a husband of one wife, a father of five and also 27 adopted children and a grandfather of nine. I talk about reality, practical issues that face people.&rdquo; &ldquo;Our country is in a fatherless crisis. Young men are looking for role models in society and it is the duty of fathers to equip their sons for the future by giving them fishing rods and not fish,&rdquo; he said.Admission to Sunday&rsquo;s gathering is by ticket because of the large crowd expected. Tickets can be purchased from Computicket online or at any Shoprite Checkers store.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.